docs/OPENZL_ANALYSIS.md, before:

# OpenZL Integration Status

_Last updated: 2025-03-XX_

OpenZL remains an **optional**, proprietary compression adapter. Driftlock ships with deterministic fallback compressors (zstd, lz4, gzip) enabled everywhere. The OpenZL path is now first-class again but strictly opt-in.

## Current Behavior

- `cbad-core` builds without OpenZL by default. The new FFI call `cbad_has_openzl()` exposes whether the feature flag was compiled in. Go bindings surface this via `driftlockcbad.HasOpenZL()`.
- `cmd/driftlock-http`’s `/healthz` endpoint reports `openzl_available: true/false` and only lists `openzl` in `available_algos` when the Rust core includes those symbols.
- Requests that specify `algo=openzl` automatically fall back to `zstd` when OpenZL isn’t compiled in; the HTTP response includes `"fallback_from_algo": "openzl"` so operators can see the downgrade.

## How to Enable OpenZL Locally

1. **Obtain the private artifacts** from Meta/OpenZL (the `libopenzl.a` static library plus headers).
2. Place them under `openzl/` at the repository root _or_ set `OPENZL_LIB_DIR=/absolute/path/to/openzl`.
3. Build the Rust core with the feature enabled:
   ```bash
   cd cbad-core
   OPENZL_LIB_DIR=/path/to/openzl cargo build --release --features openzl
   ```
   The build script now fails fast with a clear error if `libopenzl.a` cannot be located, so you are never surprised during linking.
4. Build Go binaries or Docker images with `USE_OPENZL=true` so the Rust stage enables the feature:
   ```bash
   docker build \
     -f collector-processor/cmd/driftlock-http/Dockerfile \
     --build-arg USE_OPENZL=true \
     --build-arg RUST_VERSION=1.82 \
     --build-arg GO_VERSION=1.24 \
     .
   ```

## Docker & CI Story

- `scripts/test-docker-build.sh` now autodetects whether OpenZL artifacts are present. When they are missing (default), the script builds only the generic images and clearly prints that OpenZL-only variants were skipped. Set `ENABLE_OPENZL_BUILD=true` and expose the libraries to force those builds.
- GitHub Actions runs the script on every push/PR (generic compressors only) so the Dockerfiles never rot. Optional OpenZL jobs can be added later once a redistributable artifact exists.

## Operator Guidance

- Production deployments should treat OpenZL like an accelerator: enable it where the proprietary library can be installed; otherwise rely on zstd.
- `/healthz` plus Prometheus metrics expose whether OpenZL is active so SREs can alert on misconfigured hosts.
- Documentation and customer deliverables must continue to describe OpenZL as optional; deterministic fallbacks are the supported baseline.

For additional details or troubleshooting steps, coordinate with Shannon Labs engineering — the proprietary library cannot be redistributed in this repository.

Commit message:

Set up OpenZL as git submodule and update build system
- Add OpenZL as git submodule pointing to facebook/openzl
- Remove outdated .archive/openzl directory
- Update all Dockerfiles to handle OpenZL submodule and nested dependencies
- Add submodules: recursive to all CI workflow checkout steps
- Update docs to clarify OpenZL is open-source (BSD), not proprietary
- Add build instructions for submodule initialization

docs/OPENZL_ANALYSIS.md, after:

# OpenZL Integration Status

_Last updated: 2025-03-XX_

OpenZL is an **optional**, open-source compression adapter (BSD licensed, available at https://github.com/facebook/openzl). Driftlock ships with deterministic fallback compressors (zstd, lz4, gzip) enabled everywhere. The OpenZL path is now first-class again but strictly opt-in.

## Current Behavior

- `cbad-core` builds without OpenZL by default. The new FFI call `cbad_has_openzl()` exposes whether the feature flag was compiled in. Go bindings surface this via `driftlockcbad.HasOpenZL()`.
- `cmd/driftlock-http`’s `/healthz` endpoint reports `openzl_available: true/false` and only lists `openzl` in `available_algos` when the Rust core includes those symbols.
- Requests that specify `algo=openzl` automatically fall back to `zstd` when OpenZL isn’t compiled in; the HTTP response includes `"fallback_from_algo": "openzl"` so operators can see the downgrade.

## How to Enable OpenZL Locally

1. **Sync the OpenZL submodule** so nested dependencies (like the bundled zstd) are available:
   ```bash
   git submodule update --init --recursive openzl
   ```
2. **Build OpenZL** from source (the repository is included as a git submodule at `openzl/`). You'll need to build `libopenzl.a` and ensure headers are available:
   ```bash
   (cd openzl && make lib)
   ```
3. The build system will look for OpenZL under `openzl/` at the repository root _or_ you can set `OPENZL_LIB_DIR=/absolute/path/to/openzl`.
4. Build the Rust core with the feature enabled:
   ```bash
   cd cbad-core
   OPENZL_LIB_DIR=/path/to/openzl cargo build --release --features openzl
   ```
   The build script now fails fast with a clear error if `libopenzl.a` cannot be located, so you are never surprised during linking.
5. Build Go binaries or Docker images with `USE_OPENZL=true` so the Rust stage enables the feature:
   ```bash
   docker build \
     -f collector-processor/cmd/driftlock-http/Dockerfile \
     --build-arg USE_OPENZL=true \
     --build-arg RUST_VERSION=1.82 \
     --build-arg GO_VERSION=1.24 \
     .
   ```

## Docker & CI Story

- `scripts/test-docker-build.sh` now autodetects whether OpenZL artifacts are present. When they are missing (default), the script builds only the generic images and clearly prints that OpenZL-only variants were skipped. Set `ENABLE_OPENZL_BUILD=true` and expose the libraries to force those builds.
- GitHub Actions runs the script on every push/PR (generic compressors only) so the Dockerfiles never rot. Optional OpenZL jobs can be added to build from the submodule when needed.

## Operator Guidance

- Production deployments should treat OpenZL like an accelerator: enable it where the library can be built and installed; otherwise rely on zstd.
- `/healthz` plus Prometheus metrics expose whether OpenZL is active so SREs can alert on misconfigured hosts.
- Documentation and customer deliverables must continue to describe OpenZL as optional; deterministic fallbacks are the supported baseline.

For additional details or troubleshooting steps, see the [OpenZL documentation](https://github.com/facebook/openzl) or coordinate with Shannon Labs engineering. The OpenZL source is included as a git submodule and can be built from source.
